[No QA] Add TypeScript Guideline (#21549)
Expensify/App: contributingGuides/PROPTYPES_CONVERSION_TABLE.md

> # Expensify PropTypes Conversation Table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Expensify PropTypes Conversion Table
```

Author: 😭

  confirmText: string; // vs. confirmText?: string;
};
```

## PropTypes Conversion Table

| PropTypes                                                            | TypeScript                                    | Instructions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `PropTypes.any`                                                      | `T`, `Record<string, unknown>` or `any`       | Figure out what would be the correct data type and use it.<br><br>If you know that it's a object but isn't possible to determine the internal structure, use `Record<string, unknown>`.                                                       |

> | `PropTypes.array` or `PropTypes.arrayOf(T)`                          | `T[]` or `Array<T>`                           | Convert to `T[]` or `Array<T>`, where `T` is the data type of the array.<br><br>If `T` isn't a primitive type, create a separate `type` for the object structure of your prop and use it.                                                     |

Reviewer 2: > Convert to `T[]` or `Array<T>`, where `T` is the data type of the array.

NAB: Didn't we say elsewhere that we should use `T[]` syntax for primitive types and `Array<T>` for custom types? It would be good to state that here as well to be more clear when to use each syntax.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can simply remove `Array<T>` from the sentence:
```ts
Convert to `T[]`, where `T` is the data type of the array.<br><br>If `T` isn't a primitive type, create a separate `type` for the object structure of your prop and use it. 
```

If `T` isn't primitive -> create a separate `type`. This way, `T[]` will be used in majority of cases. Either way we have a eslint rule for this, I don't think we need to repeat the rule how to use `T[]` vs `Array<T>`

| `PropTypes.func`                                                     | `(arg1: Type1, arg2, Type2...) => ReturnType` | Convert to the function signature.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `PropTypes.number`                                                   | `number`                                      | Convert to `number`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `PropTypes.object`, `PropTypes.shape(T)` or `PropTypes.exact(T)`     | `T`                                           | If `T` isn't a primitive type, create a separate `type` for the `T` object structure of your prop and use it.<br><br>If you want an object but isn't possible to determine the internal structure, use `Record<string, unknown>`.             |

> | `PropTypes.objectOf(T)`                                              | `Record<string, T>`                           | Convert to a `Record<string, T>` where `T` is the data type of your dictionary.<br><br>If `T` isn't a primitive type, create a separate `type` for the object structure and use it.                                                           |

Reviewer 2: > Convert to a `Record<string, T>` where `T` is the data type of your dictionary.

NAB: I find it odd to use the word "dictionary" here; "object" is the usual JS lingo, dictionary reminds me of Python. Maybe we could say "where `T` is the type of the values stored in the object."

## Conversion Example

```ts
// Before
const propTypes = {
  unknownData: PropTypes.any,
  anotherUnknownData: PropTypes.any,
  indexes: PropTypes.arrayOf(PropTypes.number),
  items: PropTypes.arrayOf(
    PropTypes.shape({
      value: PropTypes.string,
      label: PropTypes.string,
    })
  ),
  shouldShowIcon: PropTypes.bool,
  onChangeText: PropTypes.func,
  count: PropTypes.number,
  session: PropTypes.shape({
    authToken: PropTypes.string,
    accountID: PropTypes.number,
  }),
  errors: PropTypes.objectOf(PropTypes.string),
  inputs: PropTypes.objectOf(
    PropTypes.shape({
      id: PropTypes.string,
      label: PropTypes.string,
    })
  ),
  label: PropTypes.string,
  anchor: PropTypes.node,
  footer: PropTypes.element,
  uniqSymbol: PropTypes.symbol,
  icon: PropTypes.elementType,
  date: PropTypes.instanceOf(Date),
  size: PropTypes.oneOf(["small", "medium", "large"]),
};

// After
type Item = {
  value: string;
  label: string;
};

type Session = {
  authToken: string;

>   accountID: number;

Reviewer 2: NAB: It would be nice to have some optional fields in the example.

```ts
// Before
const propTypes = {
  isVisible: PropTypes.bool.isRequired,
  // `confirmText` prop is not marked as required here, theoretically it is optional.
  confirmText: PropTypes.string,
};

// After
type Props = {
  isVisible: boolean;
  // Consider it as required unless you have proof that it is indeed an optional prop.
  confirmText: string; // vs. confirmText?: string;
};
```

## PropTypes Conversion Table

| PropTypes                                                            | TypeScript                                    | Instructions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `PropTypes.any`                                                      | `T`, `Record<string, unknown>` or `any`       | Figure out what would be the correct data type and use it.<br><br>If you know that it's a object but isn't possible to determine the internal structure, use `Record<string, unknown>`.                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PropTypes.any`                                                      | `T`, `Record<string, unknown>` or `unknown`       | Figure out what would be the correct data type and use it.<br><br>If you know that it's a object but isn't possible to determine the internal structure, use `Record<string, unknown>`.                                                       |
```

@hayata-suenaga Let's not encourage usage of `any` here.

| `PropTypes.array` or `PropTypes.arrayOf(T)`                          | `T[]` or `Array<T>`                           | Convert to `T[]`, where `T` is the data type of the array.<br><br>If `T` isn't a primitive type, create a separate `type` for the object structure of your prop and use it.                                                                   |
| `PropTypes.bool`                                                     | `boolean`                                     | Convert to `boolean`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

> | `PropTypes.func`                                                     | `(arg1: Type1, arg2, Type2...) => ReturnType` | Convert to the function signature.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PropTypes.func`                                                     | `(arg1: Type1, arg2: Type2...) => ReturnType` | Convert to the function signature.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
```

Author: nice catch 👍

  inputs: PropTypes.objectOf(
    PropTypes.shape({
      id: PropTypes.string,
      label: PropTypes.string,
    })
  ),
  label: PropTypes.string,
  anchor: PropTypes.node,
  footer: PropTypes.element,
  uniqSymbol: PropTypes.symbol,
  icon: PropTypes.elementType,
  date: PropTypes.instanceOf(Date),
  size: PropTypes.oneOf(["small", "medium", "large"]),

  optionalString: PropTypes.string,
  /**
   * Note that all props listed above are technically optional because they lack the `isRequired` attribute.
   * However, in most cases, props are actually required but the `isRequired` attribute is left out by mistake.
   *
   * For each prop that appears to be optional, determine whether the component implementation assumes that
   * the prop has a value (making it non-optional) or not. Only those props that are truly optional should be
   * labeled with a `?` in their type definition.
   */
};

// After
type Item = {
  value: string;
  label: string;
};

type Session = {
  authToken: string;
  accountID: number;
};

type Input = {
  id: string;
  label: string;
};

type Size = "small" | "medium" | "large";

type Props = {
  unknownData: string[];

>   // It's not possible to infer the data as it can be anything because of reasons X, Y and Z.
>   // eslint-disable-next-line @typescript-eslint/no-explicit-any
>   anotherUnknownData: any;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // It's not possible to infer the data as it can be anything because of reasons X, Y and Z.
  anotherUnknownData: unknown;
```

@hayata-suenaga Let's not encourage usage of `any` here.

Author: nice catch 👍
